Skip to Main ContentSkip to Footer
Are you a Pro? Save time and money with a Pro Account →

For the Pro
Order Status
FREE Shipping Over $45*
Return to Sylvane's homepage
Search
What are you looking for?
Search
Need Help1-800-934-9194
Live Chat
Register | Sign In
Sign in for Your Best Experience!
Don’t have an account?Register now
Sign In
0 Items
Humidity Control 
Air Quality 
Heating & Cooling 
Floor Care 
Indoor Growing 
Shop By Concern 
Shop By Brand 
Open-Boxed & Used 
Home/Air Purifiers/5 Things to Consider When Buying an Air Purifier (2023)
5 Things to Consider When Buying an Air Purifier (2023)
5 Things to Consider When Buying an Air Purifier
Your indoor air is often more polluted than the air outside. Since we spend most of our time indoors, our exposure to poor indoor air quality puts us at risk for a number of ailments.

Using an air purifier will help create cleaner, healthier air in your home or office, so you can enjoy better indoor air quality. Answer these questions before you purchase one: 

Why Do I Need An Air Purifier?
What Size Air Purifier Do I Need?
What Features Do I Need?
Where Should I Put My Air Purifier?
How Much Maintenance Do Air Purifiers Require?
1. Why Do I Need An Air Purifier?
Air purifiers are the best way to clean your air indoors, which can be polluted and full of triggering particles like pollen and dust. They also help maintain a healthy environment by removing pet dander, mold spores, ragweed and more. 

Specific Needs 

Allergies: If you have allergies, you should choose an air purifier designed for allergy relief. They typically have multiple filters, including HEPA filters, to remove indoor allergens. 
Asthma: If you suffer from asthma or if your symptoms are triggered by odor and chemical pollutants, you'll want to consider an asthma air purifier or an odor and chemical air purifier. These air purifiers contain added odor and chemical filtration as well as HEPA filters for allergen particle removal.
Smoke: Smoke air purifiers are specifically designed to remove smoke, fireplace soot, and other associated fumes that could aggravate existing respiratory conditions or cause unpleasant odors in your environment.
Pets: Select air purifiers are designed specifically for handling pets--they remove pet dander, odors, and hair. View pet air purifiers here. 
Chemical Sensitivities: If you are extremely sensitive to chemicals, you might consider an air purifier for multiple chemical sensitivities (MCS). These models contain even more odor and chemical filtration and are often manufactured with materials that will not off-gas chemicals into the air and aggravate your symptoms. 
2. What Size Air Purifier Do I Need?
To choose the right size air purifier for your needs, consider the square footage of the room you want to purify.

If you have allergies or asthma and are looking for an air purifier to help manage your symptoms, you should also consider an air purifier’s air change per hour (ACH) rate. ACH refers to the number of times an air purifier can filter the entire volume of air in the treatment space each hour.

Air purifiers that can clean the air in a space at least four times per hour are best for allergy- and asthma-sufferers. A rate of four air changes per hour also ensures that the air purifier thoroughly cleans the air and filters out as many microscopic symptom-triggering allergens as possible to keep you breathing easy.

Our air purifiers are sized for four air changes per hour. Use these guides: 

Small: These air purifiers are designed for personal space or rooms up to 299 square feet. 
Medium: Find an air purifier for rooms between 300 and 699 square feet. 
Large: Use these air purifiers in rooms between 700 and 1,900 square feet. 
Whole-House: Check out our whole-house models. 
3. What Features Do I Need on My Air Purifier?
After choosing the type and size of air purifier you need, consider whether or not you'd like any special features.

Features include: 

To save money and conserve energy, look for air purifiers that are Energy Star-rated by the EPA. 
You can also find wi-fi air purifiers you can control from your phone. 
Air quality indicators give real-time updates on the quality of your air.
Other features include: caster wheels, handles for easy mobility, remote controls, multiple fan speeds, and filter change indicators.
4. Where Should I Put My Air Purifier?
In most situations, we recommend that you place your air purifier in your bedroom since that's where you spend most of your time.

Keep in mind that portable air purifiers are designed primarily to purify the air in one room only, so you may need to invest in additional units for other rooms.

Alternatively, you can choose a unit that includes caster wheels, handles, and other portability features to make it easier to move it from room to room.

Whole house air purifiers are becoming popular choices for clean air in every room of your home. These units connect to your home's existing HVAC system to purify your indoors as you heat, cool, or ventilate your home.

5. How Much Maintenance Do Air Purifiers Require?
The main type of maintenance required with air purifiers is replacing air filters. How often do you need to replace them?  

HEPA Filters: HEPA filters last about one year depending on use.
Carbon Filters: Activated carbon filters typically last 6 months. 
Pre-Filters: Pre-filters generally last 3 months, but some filters are washable for long-term filtration. 
Other types of air purifiers, such as our AirFree air sterilizers, use heat or ultraviolet light to purify your air and kill germs and allergens. These models never need filter replacements for your convenience. 

In Summary
Before buying an air purifier: Get one that is equipped for your room size, filters out the particles in your home, and is easy to use. 

Still Have Questions?
For more information on a specific air purifier or other air treatment solutions, browse our products and visit our Air Purifier Knowledge Center. Not sure what's best for you? We can take the guesswork out of decision-making. Contact one of our air treatment specialists at 1-800-934-9194. We want to help make your indoor environment healthy and comfortable.

Author Image
ZACH CLAXTON
CONTENT MANAGER
Zach Claxton has many years of experience at Sylvane, and he has evaluated and written about thousands of products including air conditioners, dehumidifiers, air purifiers, heaters, industrial vacuums, humidifiers, and more.
Sign up for the Sylvane Newsletter & Get 5% Off Your First Purchase
Get updates on articles, blog posts, and products. Plus our subscribers receive exclusive offers!
Enter Your Email Address
By subscribing, you agree to Sylvane's terms of use and privacy policy. We respect your privacy and will never sell your email address. You can unsubscribe at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

Have a question or need a quote?
Ask Our Experts
Live Chat1-800-934-9194Email
Related Articles
Air Purifier Buying Guide (2023)
Frequently Asked Questions About Air Purifiers
Air Purifiers and Allergies
Air Purifiers Help Relieve Winter Allergies
Air Purifier Maintenance
Austin Air Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
View all related articles »
Why Shop With Sylvane
Our product experts give you personalized guidance and trustworthy service.
Call us at 1-800-934-9194.
100% 30 Day Money Back Guarantee
Free shipping on orders $45 or more. Orders under $45 ship for $5.95.
Exclusions apply
Best Selling Air Purifiers
Featured Brands
Shop All Air Purifiers
Customer Support
Track Your Order
Contact Us
Shipping Information
Return Policy
FAQs
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Get To Know Us
About Us
Why Shop With Us
The Leadership Team
Our Blog: Indoor Health Matters
Press Center
Employment
Shopping with Us
Brands
Replacement Parts
Open-Box & Used
Warranties
Sales Tax
Business Sales
Government Clients
Discounts & Coupons
Resources
Affiliate Program
Knowledge Center
Indoor Air Quality Glossary
Air Quality Index
Sitemap
Sign up for our newsletter to receive special offers only for our subscribers!
Enter Email Address
Accepted Payment Methods
VisaMastercardDiscoverAMEXPayPalApple Pay
A+ Better Business Bureau Rating, opens in new window
 Verified SSL Secure
Reviewed by Allyant
Copyright © 2024 Sylvane Inc.  All Rights Reserved.Billing Terms & Conditions | Coupon Terms | CA Privacy Rights
Sign UpSubscribe & Save 5%* Today!Plus you'll receive exclusive offers, helpful air quality resources & more!

